1. A periodical is a publication that is issued regularly.
2. All staff must leave from (the) fire hydrant exit.
3. All writers, consciously or unconsciously, (all) represent their own cultures.
4. Avoid confusing the causes and effects of these changes.
5. Career opportunities in this field are quite limited.
6. Competition for the places in course is fierce.
7. Conferences ought to be scheduled two weeks in advance.
8. Despite protest the chemistry department was closed down.
9. Essays should be typed with double space in white paper.
10. Experts believe that industry development will help economy.
11. Fees are heavily discounted and bursaries are available for delegates.
12. Free campus tours run daily during summer for perspective students.
13. However, this method is problematic in terms of accuracy.
14. I will now demonstrate how the reaction can be arrested by adding a diluted acid.
15. In the past, students were required to complete two long written assignments.
16. Interim grades will be posted on the board outside the student lounge.
17. It is important to allocate your time wisely when revising.
18. It is quite clear that the rising prosperity does not make people feel more content.
19. Knives and forks should be placed next to the spoons on the edge of the table.
20. Many of the urban poor lived in extremely cramped conditions.
21. Maybe it is time for me to make some changes.
22. Most teaching staff make their lecture notes available online.
23. Most theories were quite similar, but a few critics disagree.
24. Much of his research objectives are driven by his natural curiosity and instincts.
25. New York City is famous for its ethnic diversity.
26. Novelists have a major role to play in reflecting their time to their readers.
27. Our class is divided into two groups, you come with me, the others stay here.
28. Our class will be divided into three groups.
29. Our group meeting will be held tomorrow in the library conference room.
30. Overcrowding and poor sanitation affect the daily lives of the majority of the population.
31. Please remember to bring a highlighter to the class next Wednesday.
32. Please work with each other to build monolithic status.
33. Politics is usually not (not usually) a safe topic for conversation.
34. Reference materials are on hold on the library reference desk.
35. Relevant resources are reserved in the library.
36. Review all resources/materials before drawing your conclusion.
37. Some of the features are part of rhe previous research.
38. Student concession cards need to be obtained by completing an application form.
39. Student identification card will be issued by today or tomorrow.
40. Students are held accountable for adhering to establish community standard.
41. Successful applicants will work with a large team of researchers.
42. Sydney is Australia's largest city, chief port and cultural centre.
43. Teaching assistants will receive monthly fees for housing.
44. The amount of humidity and moisture in the air can be held.
45. The coffee house has special student discount throughout the week.
46. The curriculum is described in the course syllabus.
47. The date of the invention of the first clock is disputed among historians.
48. The decision was made with supports of many faculty members.
49. The dining hall will be under renovation during the fall break.
50. The fire left the area almost completely devoid of vegetation.
51. The first assignment is due on the fourteenth of September.
52. The history of the movement was recorded by several promoters.
53. The leading company has changed its policies after the report was released.
54. The main concepts of these events were not yet fully understood.
55. The Maximum production of chocolate is in U.S.
56. The medical centre is located near the supermarket on North Street.
57. The mismatch between the intended and reported uses of the instrument has become clear.
58. The most important process of farming is weeding.
59. The problem of research for postgraduate students is funding.
60. The qualification is assessed in a criteria reference book.
61. The qualification will be assessed with the criterion-referenced approach.
62. The same approach reached the same explanation of the problem.
63. The schedule allows plenty of time for independent (individual) study.
64. The solar energy department is highly regarded worldwide.
65. The university departments should carefully monitor articles and publications by faculty.
66. The university has a world-renowned school of archaeology.
67. The university library has most of the necessary books.
68. There was no correlation between drug use and cure rates.
69. There were not enough evidences to support these recommendations
70. This article covers the who, where and when of the conflict.
71. This course will examine some of the profound ethical dilemmas.
72. This graph shows there is a minimal growth.
73. This paper challenged the previously accepted theories.
74. This year we are applying to use a different type of assessment on this module.
75. Today's lecture materials will be included in the next assessment.
76. We are also going to be more prescriptive about what you focus on in your presentation.
77. We are warning the clients that the rates are increasing.
78. We support the research on tropical dynamics and forecasting
79. We’ve decided to ask you to write four short pieces of written coursework this year.
80. You are required to complete the research paper by next Monday.
81. Your task is to create the demand for the products.
82. Your thesis must (should) have a fairly large (limited) scope.